### Celephais

In a dream, Kuranes saw the city in the valley, and the coastline beyond, and the snow-capped peak overlooking the sea, and the brightly colored ships that sailed out of the harbor towards the distant areas where the sea meets the sky. It was also in a dream that he adopted the name Kuranes, because when he was awake, he was known by a different name. Maybe it was natural for him to dream up a new name; after all, he was the last of his family, and alone among the indifferent millions in London, so there weren't many people to talk to him and remind him of his past. His wealth and properties were gone, and he didn't care for the ways of the people around him, but preferred to dream and write about his dreams. What he wrote was mocked by those he showed it to, so eventually, he kept his writings to himself, and finally stopped writing. The more he distanced himself from the world around him, the more extraordinary his dreams became; and it would have been completely pointless to try to describe them on paper. Kuranes was not modern, and didn't think like other writers. While they tried to strip life of its mythical embellishments, and to expose in stark ugliness the harsh reality, Kuranes searched for beauty alone. When truth and experience failed to reveal it, he sought it in imagination and illusion, and found it right at his doorstep, amid the hazy memories of childhood stories and dreams.

Not many people realize the wonders that were revealed to them in the stories and dreams of their childhood. As kids, when we listen and dream, our thoughts are only half-formed. And when we try to recall these as adults, our memories are dulled and mundane, tainted by the harsh realities of life. But some of us wake up in the middle of the night with vivid images of magical hills and gardens, of fountains that sing under the sun, of golden cliffs overlooking whispering seas, of vast plains leading to dormant cities of bronze and stone, and of mysterious groups of heroes riding adorned white horses along the borders of dense forests. In these moments, we realize that we've glimpsed back through the gates of memory into that magical world that was ours before we became wise and disillusioned.

Kuranes abruptly found himself back in his childhood world. He had been dreaming of his birthplace; the grand stone house covered in ivy, where thirteen generations of his family had lived, and where he had hoped to spend his last days. It was a moonlit night, and he had snuck out into the fragrant summer night, through the gardens, down the terraces, past the park's massive oaks, and along the long white road to the village. The village appeared ancient, eroded at the edges like the waning moon, and Kuranes wondered if the pointed roofs of the small houses concealed sleep or death. The streets were speckled with tall grass, and the window panes on either side were either shattered or eerily vacant. Kuranes didn't linger, but continued on as if called towards a certain destination. He didn't dare ignore the call, fearing it might be an illusion like the desires and ambitions of waking life, which don't lead to any real destination. Then he was drawn down a lane that veered off from the village street towards the coastal cliffs, and had reached the end of the road—to the cliff edge and the abyss where the entire village and the world abruptly fell into the silent void of infinity, and where even the sky ahead was empty and unlit by the decaying moon and the distant stars. Faith had propelled him forward, over the cliff and into the chasm, where he had floated down, down, down; past dark, formless, unimaginable dreams, faintly glowing orbs that might have been partially dreamed dreams, and laughing winged creatures that seemed to ridicule the dreamers of all worlds. Then a gap seemed to open in the darkness before him, and he saw the city in the valley, shining brilliantly far, far below, with a backdrop of sea and sky, and a snow-capped mountain near the coast.

Kuranes woke up the instant he saw the city, but even from his brief glimpse, he knew it was none other than Celephaïs, located in the Valley of Ooth-Nargai beyond the Tanarian Hills, where his spirit had resided for the eternity of an hour one summer afternoon a long time ago. Back then, he had slipped away from his caretaker and let the warm sea breeze lull him to sleep as he watched the clouds from the cliff near the village. He had been upset when they found him, woke him up, and took him home, because just as he was waking up, he was about to sail in a golden ship towards those enticing regions where the sea meets the sky. And now, he was just as annoyed at waking up, because he had discovered his mythical city after forty long years.

But three nights later, Kuranes returned to Celephaïs. As before, he first dreamed of the village that was either asleep or deserted, and of the deep chasm one must silently drift down; then the gap appeared again, and he saw the sparkling towers of the city, and observed the elegant ships anchored in the blue harbor, and watched the gingko trees of Mount Aran swaying in the sea breeze. But this time he wasn't abruptly taken away, and like a bird, he gradually descended over a grassy hillside until finally his feet gently touched the grass. He had indeed returned to the Valley of Ooth-Nargai and the magnificent city of Celephaïs.

Kuranes strolled down the hill, surrounded by fragrant grasses and vibrant flowers, crossing the bubbling Naraxa via a small wooden bridge where he had etched his name years ago. He continued through the murmuring grove to the large stone bridge at the city gate. Everything was as he remembered, the marble walls were not discolored, nor were the polished bronze statues tarnished. Kuranes realized he didn't need to worry about the things he knew disappearing; even the guards on the walls were the same, still as youthful as he remembered. As he entered the city, crossing the bronze gates and walking on the onyx pavements, the merchants and camel-drivers greeted him as if he had never left. The same was true at the turquoise temple of Nath-Horthath, where the priests adorned with orchids told him that in Ooth-Nargai, there is no time, only eternal youth. Kuranes then strolled down the Street of Pillars to the sea-facing wall, where traders, sailors, and exotic men from the regions where the sea meets the sky gathered. He spent a long time there, looking out over the bright harbor where the ripples sparkled under an unfamiliar sun, and where galleys from distant places lightly rode the water. He also admired Mount Aran, majestically rising from the shore, its lower slopes lush with swaying trees and its white peak touching the sky.

Kuranes, more than ever, yearned to voyage on a ship to the distant lands he'd heard so many intriguing stories about. He sought out the captain who had agreed to take him on this journey a long time ago. He found the man, Athib, perched on the same spice chest he'd been sitting on previously, seemingly oblivious to the passage of time. Then, they rowed to a ship in the harbor and, after giving instructions to the crew, they began to sail into the undulating Cerenerian Sea that leads to the sky. For several days, they smoothly sailed over the water until they reached the horizon where the sea meets the sky. The ship didn't pause at all, but effortlessly floated in the sky's blue among fluffy, rose-tinted clouds. From far below the ship's hull, Kuranes could see exotic lands, rivers, and cities of extraordinary beauty, lazily basking in the sunlight that never seemed to fade or disappear. Eventually, Athib informed him that their journey was nearing its end and they would soon dock at the harbor of Serannian, the pink marble city in the clouds, built on the ethereal coast where the west wind flows into the sky. But as the city's tallest carved towers came into view, a sound echoed somewhere in the cosmos, and Kuranes woke up in his London attic.

For many months after that, Kuranes fruitlessly searched for the incredible city of Celephaïs and its sky-reaching ships. Even though his dreams took him to many stunning and unknown places, no one he encountered could guide him to Ooth-Nargai, located beyond the Tanarian Hills. One night, he found himself flying over dark mountains where there were sparse, solitary campfires at vast distances apart, and peculiar, shaggy herds with jingling bells on the leaders. In the most remote part of this hilly region, so secluded that few people could have ever seen it, he discovered an eerily ancient wall or pathway made of stone zigzagging along the ridges and valleys. It was too massive to have been built by human hands, and so long that neither end could be seen. Beyond that wall in the grey dawn, he arrived at a land of charming gardens and cherry trees. As the sun rose, he was so captivated by the beauty of the red and white flowers, green foliage and lawns, white paths, sparkling brooks, blue ponds, carved bridges, and red-roofed pagodas, that he momentarily forgot about Celephaïs in pure joy. But he remembered it again when he walked down a white path toward a red-roofed pagoda, and would have asked the locals about it, had he not discovered that there were no people there, only birds, bees, and butterflies. On another night, Kuranes climbed up a damp stone spiral staircase endlessly, and arrived at a tower window overlooking a vast plain and river illuminated by the full moon. In the silent city that spread out from the river bank, he thought he recognized some feature or arrangement that he had seen before. He would have descended and asked for directions to Ooth-Nargai had not a terrifying aurora flared up from some distant place beyond the horizon, revealing the ruin and age of the city, the stagnation of the reedy river, and the death that had lain upon that land since King Kynaratholis returned from his conquests to face the wrath of the gods.

So Kuranes tirelessly searched for the incredible city of Celephaïs and its ships that sail to Serannian in the sky, all the while witnessing many marvels and narrowly escaping from the indescribable high-priest, who wears a yellow silk mask over its face and lives alone in an ancient stone monastery on the chilly desert plateau of Leng. Over time, he grew so tired of the dreary gaps of day that he started buying drugs to extend his periods of sleep. Hashish was quite helpful, and once transported him to a part of space where form does not exist, but where glowing gases explore the mysteries of existence. A violet-colored gas informed him that this part of space was beyond what he had referred to as infinity. The gas had never heard of planets and organisms before, but recognized Kuranes simply as one from the infinity where matter, energy, and gravity exist. Kuranes was now very eager to return to the minaret-filled Celephaïs, and increased his doses of drugs; but eventually he ran out of money and couldn't buy any more drugs. Then one summer day he was evicted from his attic room, and aimlessly roamed the streets, drifting over a bridge to a place where the houses became fewer and fewer. And it was there that his destiny was fulfilled, and he met the procession of knights from Celephaïs who had come to take him there forever.

They were handsome knights, riding chestnut horses and dressed in gleaming armor with banners of gold fabric intricately designed. They were so many that Kuranes almost mistook them for an army, but their leader informed him they were sent in his honor; because he was the one who had dreamt up Ooth-Nargai, and for that reason, he was now to be appointed its main deity forever. Then they gave Kuranes a horse and positioned him at the front of the procession, and they all rode grandly through the hills of Surrey and onward toward the area where Kuranes and his ancestors were born. It was very odd, but as the riders continued, they seemed to gallop back through time; for whenever they passed through a village at dusk, they only saw houses and villages that Chaucer or men before him might have seen, and sometimes they saw knights on horseback with small groups of followers. When it got dark, they traveled faster, until soon they were moving eerily as if in the air. In the faint dawn, they arrived at the village which Kuranes had seen alive in his childhood, and asleep or dead in his dreams. It was alive now, and early villagers bowed as the horsemen clattered down the street and turned off into the lane that ends in the abyss of dream. Kuranes had previously entered that abyss only at night, and wondered what it would look like by day; so he watched anxiously as the procession approached its edge. Just as they galloped up the rising ground to the cliff, a golden glow came from somewhere in the east and covered all the landscape in its radiant drapes. The abyss was now a boiling chaos of pink and sky-blue splendor, and unseen voices sang joyfully as the knightly group plunged over the edge and floated gracefully down past sparkling clouds and silver flashes. Endlessly down the horsemen floated, their horses pawing the ether as if galloping over golden sands; and then the glowing mists parted to reveal a greater brightness, the brightness of the city Celephaïs, and the sea-coast beyond, and the snow-capped peak overlooking the sea, and the brightly painted ships that sail out of the harbor toward distant regions where the sea meets the sky.

Kuranes then ruled over Ooth-Nargai and all the surrounding dream regions, holding court alternately in Celephaïs and the cloud-shaped Serannian. He still rules there, and will continue to rule happily forever. However, beneath the cliffs at Innsmouth, the channel tides toyed with the body of a homeless man who had wandered through the semi-abandoned village at dawn. They toyed with him, and threw him onto the rocks by the ivy-covered Trevor Towers, where a particularly obese and exceptionally obnoxious millionaire brewer relishes in the bought ambiance of extinct nobility.

